Key management updates in "Testing cryptography", "Testing data storage" for iOS and Android (#1884)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x04g-Testing-Cryptography.md

When memory dumping is part of your threat model, then keys can be accessed the moment they are actively used. Memory dumping either requires root-access (e.g. a rooted device or jailbroken device) or it requires a patched application with Frida (so you can use tools like Fridump).
Therefore it is best to consider the following, if keys are still needed at the device:

- Make sure that all cryptographic actions and the keys itself remain in the Trusted Execution Environment (e.g. use Android Keystore) or Secure Enclave (e.g. use the Keychain and when you sign, use ECDHE).

> - If keys are necessary which are outside of the TEE / SE, make sure keys are protected using multi-layered approach. For example, data encryption key (DEK) can be encrypted with key encryption key (KEK) stored in Keychain / Keystore, thus DEK is stored encrypted. This key wrapping technique requires reading KEK first and then decrypting DEK before usage. Another approach is obfuscation: obfuscate DEK and de-obfuscate before usage.

Author: I suggest we do both!

First, we explain the DEK-KEK approach, because it is platform- and implementation-independent. Anyone can do it.

Second, I also added a link to EncryptedSharedPreferences from `androidx.security.crypto` package as an illustration of this approach. I've seen many similar libs for iOS and Android (encrypted shared preferences, encrypted user defaults), but I'd avoid linking community-written libs (because who knows how they have implemented encryption piece, how they store keys, if they provide any expiration/cleanup, etc :) ). 

Linking `androidx.security.crypto` makes sense because it's made by Google, more trust, more support.

I rewrote this piece, please take a look.

> - If keys are necessary which are outside of the TEE / SE, make sure keys are protected using multi-layered approach. For example, data encryption key (DEK) can be encrypted with key encryption key (KEK) stored in Keychain / Keystore, thus DEK is stored encrypted. This key wrapping technique requires reading KEK first and then decrypting DEK before usage. Another approach is obfuscation: obfuscate DEK and de-obfuscate before usage.

Author: Random idea: we can also link to this [Cryptographic Storage Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#encrypting-stored-keys) that also explains key wrapping technique.

> - If keys are necessary which are outside of the TEE / SE, make sure keys are protected using multi-layered approach. For example, data encryption key (DEK) can be encrypted with key encryption key (KEK) stored in Keychain / Keystore, thus DEK is stored encrypted. This key wrapping technique requires reading KEK first and then decrypting DEK before usage. Another approach is obfuscation: obfuscate DEK and de-obfuscate before usage.

Author: Also, Amazon calls this technique "envelope encryption": https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/financial-services-industry-lens/use-envelope-encryption-with-customer-master-keys.html

> - Make sure that all cryptographic actions and the keys itself remain in the Trusted Execution Environment (e.g. use [Android Keystore](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/keystore.html "Android keystore system")) or [Secure Enclave](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/certificate_key_and_trust_services/keys/storing_keys_in_the_secure_enclave "Storing Keys in the Secure Enclave") (e.g. use the Keychain and when you sign, use ECDHE).
> - If keys are necessary which are outside of the TEE / SE, make sure keys are protected using multi-layered approach. For example, data encryption key (DEK) can be encrypted with key encryption key (KEK) stored in Keychain / Keystore, thus DEK is stored encrypted. This key wrapping technique requires reading KEK first and then decrypting DEK before usage. An illustration of this approach is [EncryptedSharedPreferences from androidx.security.crypto package](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/security "androidx.security.crypto API reference"). Another approach of protecting keys is obfuscation: obfuscate DEK and de-obfuscate it before usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure that all cryptographic actions and the keys itself remain in the Trusted Execution Environment (e.g. use [Android Keystore](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/keystore.html "Android keystore system")) or [Secure Enclave](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/certificate_key_and_trust_services/keys/storing_keys_in_the_secure_enclave "Storing Keys in the Secure Enclave") (e.g. use the Keychain). Refer to the [Android Data Storage](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#storing-a-key---example) and [iOS Data Storage](0x06d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#the-keychain) chapters for more information.
```

This point is addressing one special case of the previous point for Android, I'd suggest to remove it since the previous point covers it. The current paragraph should be reduced and the specifics moved/merged to their corresp. chapters.

You can use the info from the deleted paragraph to update [Android Data Storage - Storing a key](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#storing-a-key---example) section. We need a nice overview / clear recommendation  there (e.g. most secure if it never leaves the KeyStore, 2nd most secure if using EncryptedPreferences, etc.). You could take the chance to introduce the official term "Envelope encryption" from [the site you've sent me](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#encrypting-stored-keys) which refers to [Google](https://cloud.google.com/kms/docs/envelope-encryption?hl=en).

Maybe it could be a nice idea to include another example, since this is also good to know for other kind of apps such as the "React Native"-based ones (and goes in-line with our statement/recommendation here): 
- https://reactnative.dev/docs/security
- https://github.com/emeraldsanto/react-native-encrypted-storage/blob/master/android/src/main/java/com/emeraldsanto/encryptedstorage/RNEncryptedStorageModule.java

Unfortunately I could not find more examples for other frameworks, only this [lib for Flutter](https://github.com/mogol/flutter_secure_storage/blob/develop/android/src/main/java/com/it_nomads/fluttersecurestorage/ciphers/StorageCipher18Implementation.java) , but it has a custom implementation.

Reviewer: I'm realizing now that the location of the mentioned information is not yet consistent. The iOS chapter should have an introductory section regarding iOS Data Storage (reflecting the Android one), instead of inside the test case. 

  > This refactoring should be eventually made. If you want please go ahead and move/consolidate that info (as part of a new PR).

- Make sure that keys live in memory for the shortest time possible. Ideally, keys should be read/allocated right before usage and clean up after usage or in case of error. Never store keys in constants.

> - Always zero out keys before the memory is released, whether using native code or not. This means: overwrite the memory structure (e.g. nullify the array) and know that most of the Immutable types in Android (such as `BigInteger` and `String`) stay in the heap. See [Clean memory of secret data](https://github.com/veorq/cryptocoding#clean-memory-of-secret-data/ "The Cryptocoding Guidelines by @veorq: Clean memory of secret data") for reference.

Author: Yes, totally makes sense, if we touch zeroing, let's update it fully :)

I didn't find any guaranteed method of zeroing keys for iOS/Android, but I found and linked recommendations (still, no guarantees, but more likely).

I also rewrote wording into less strict, more recommendation/try-your-best style: if we can't controls memory management of operating system, we can't really demand developers to use any certain approach.

Please let me know what do you think

> - Make sure that keys live in memory for the shortest time possible. Ideally, keys should be read/allocated right before usage and clean up after usage or in case of error. Avoid storing keys in constants.
> - Consider zeroing out and nullify keys after successful cryptographic operation and in case of error. Unfortunately, there are certain limitations of realibly cleaning up secret data in languages with garbage collector (Java) and immutable `String` (Swift, Objective-C, Kotlin). [Java Cryptography Architecture Reference Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/16/security/java-cryptography-architecture-jca-reference-guide.html#GUID-C9F76AFB-6B20-45A7-B84F-96756C8A94B4 "Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) Reference Guide") suggests using `char[]` instead of `String` for storing sensitive data, and nullify array after usage. [Apple Secure Coding Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/SecureCodingGuide/SecurityDevelopmentChecklists/SecurityDevelopmentChecklists.html "Security Development Checklists") also suggests zeroing passwords after usage, but provides no recommended ways of doing this. Consider using `NSMutableData` for storing secrets on Swift/Objective-C and use [`resetBytes(in:)` method](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsmutabledata/1415526-resetbytes "NSMutableData resetBytes(in:) API reference") for zeroing. Also, see [Clean memory of secret data](https://github.com/veorq/cryptocoding#clean-memory-of-secret-data/ "The Cryptocoding Guidelines by @veorq: Clean memory of secret data") for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure that keys live in memory for the shortest time possible and consider zeroing out and nullifying keys after successful cryptographic operations, or in case of error. For more detailed information refer to sections [Testing Memory for Sensitive Data](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#checking-memory-for-sensitive-data-mstg-storage-10) and [Checking Memory for Sensitive Data](0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#checking-memory-for-sensitive-data-mstg-storage-10) for Android and iOS respectively.
```

To keep it simple and general (since we're in the general guide here), I suggest to reduce these two points to the suggestion and use the _removed_ information to update these sections:

- https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x05d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#checking-memory-for-sensitive-data-mstg-storage-10
- https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x06d-Testing-Data-Storage.md#testing-memory-for-sensitive-data-mstg-storage-10

Also consider renaming the section from "Checking Memory for Sensitive Data" to "Testing Memory for Sensitive Data" for consistency.

When memory dumping is part of your threat model, then keys can be accessed the moment they are actively used. Memory dumping either requires root-access (e.g. a rooted device or jailbroken device) or it requires a patched application with Frida (so you can use tools like Fridump).
Therefore it is best to consider the following, if keys are still needed at the device:

> - Make sure that all cryptographic actions and the keys itself remain in the Trusted Execution Environment (e.g. use [Android Keystore](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/keystore.html "Android keystore system")) or [Secure Enclave](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/certificate_key_and_trust_services/keys/storing_keys_in_the_secure_enclave "Storing Keys in the Secure Enclave") (e.g. use the Keychain and when you sign, use ECDHE).

Author: @cpholguera FYI: added official links here

> - If keys are necessary which are outside of the TEE / SE, make sure keys are protected using multi-layered approach. For example, data encryption key (DEK) can be encrypted with key encryption key (KEK) stored in Keychain / Keystore, thus DEK is stored encrypted. This key wrapping technique requires reading KEK first and then decrypting DEK before usage. An illustration of this approach is [EncryptedSharedPreferences from androidx.security.crypto package](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/security "androidx.security.crypto API reference"). Another approach of protecting keys is obfuscation: obfuscate DEK and de-obfuscate it before usage.

Author: update here

- Make sure that keys live in memory for the shortest time possible. Ideally, keys should be read/allocated right before usage and clean up after usage or in case of error. Avoid storing keys in constants.

> - Consider zeroing out and nullify keys after successful cryptographic operation and in case of error. Unfortunately, there are certain limitations of realibly cleaning up secret data in languages with garbage collector (Java) and immutable `String` (Swift, Objective-C, Kotlin). [Java Cryptography Architecture Reference Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/16/security/java-cryptography-architecture-jca-reference-guide.html#GUID-C9F76AFB-6B20-45A7-B84F-96756C8A94B4 "Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) Reference Guide") suggests using `char[]` instead of `String` for storing sensitive data, and nullify array after usage. [Apple Secure Coding Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/SecureCodingGuide/SecurityDevelopmentChecklists/SecurityDevelopmentChecklists.html "Security Development Checklists") also suggests zeroing passwords after usage, but provides no recommended ways of doing this. Consider using `NSMutableData` for storing secrets on Swift/Objective-C and use [`resetBytes(in:)` method](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsmutabledata/1415526-resetbytes "NSMutableData resetBytes(in:) API reference") for zeroing. Also, see [Clean memory of secret data](https://github.com/veorq/cryptocoding#clean-memory-of-secret-data/ "The Cryptocoding Guidelines by @veorq: Clean memory of secret data") for reference.

Author: @cpholguera rewritten here
